Documented current ICP scoring (#4286)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/handbook/growth/sales/crm.md

## How we calculate Ideal Customer Profile (ICP)

ICP scoring helps us to focus our efforts on those customers who are likely to help us hit our growth targets quickly.

> We use [Clearbit](https://clearbit.com/) to enhance our contact information as they are created and then compute a score out of 25 in HubSpot based on the following parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use [Clearbit](https://clearbit.com/) to enhance our contact information as it is created and then compute a score out of 25 in HubSpot based on the following parameters:
```

> We use [Clearbit](https://clearbit.com/) to enhance our contact information as they are created and then compute a score out of 25 in HubSpot based on the following parameters:

Reviewer 2: And anything 13 or over we consider a high ICP customer? (I'm assuming we need to use whole numbers in order to break this down in PH)

- *Industry* - customers in certain industries have stricter privacy requirements which mean a privacy-focused solution like PostHog is ideal for them.  We give the highest score (5 points) to the following industries:

>   - Financial Services

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Financial services
```

>   - Health Care

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Health care
```

  - Biotechnology

>   - Health Care Services

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Health care services
```

>   - Legal Services

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Legal services
```

>   - Health & Wellness

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Health & wellness
```

  
  Whilst we score them slightly lower (4 points), we also focus on customers from:

>   - Internet Software & Services

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Internet software & services
```

  - Consulting

>   - Computer Networking

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Computer networking
```

- *Employee count* - we use this as a strong indicator for product market fit.  Smaller companies are less likely to have achieved this so our highest score here goes to companies in the 100-1000 employee range.  We score companies over 1000 employees slightly lower as they will generally be slower to deal with.
- *Ability to pay* - indicates whether a company is likely to pay for a product like PostHog to solve their problems.  This is computed from a combination of company revenue and/or the amount of money they have raised.  If their revenue is over $10m, or they have raised over $20m they get the highest score (5 points). If revenue is under $1-10m or they've raised over $10m they'll get 4 points.
- *Role* - from experience we sell best to people in an engineering role (5 points) and score those the highest.  We also do well with leadership (4 points) and product (3 points) folks, so they have a favourable score.  If we know the role but it falls outside of those categories then it's 1 point.
- *B2B/B2C* - our event-based pricing works best for business-to-business companies where the value per event is higher.

> - *Country* - from experience we know that certain countries have a lower inclination to pay for software so we downweight those.

Reviewer 2: I think it's better to be transparent here and state how we score countries? (Knowing this will help us target our marketing efforts for example, and I don't think we'll be 'insulting' other countries provided this is framed sensitively!)

Reviewer 2: Especially given we apply a -7 to 'not in target country list', which is pretty chunky

Author: Added those now

| Metric         | Value                                                                                                            | Score |
|----------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------|

> | Industry       | Finance, Financial Services, Health & Wellness, Health Care, Health Care Services, Biotechnology, Legal Services | 5     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Industry       | Finance, Financial services, Health & wellness, Health care, Health care services, Biotechnology, Legal Services | 5     |
```

> |                | Internet, Internet Software & Services, Consulting, Research & Consulting Services, Computer Networking          | 4     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|                | Internet, Internet software & services, Consulting, Research & consulting services, Computer networking          | 4     |
```

|                | leadership                                                                                                                                                                                            | 4     |
|                | product                                                                                                                                                                                               | 3     |
|                | other (known)                                                                                                                                                                                         | 1     |
| Customer type  | B2B                                                                                                                                                                                                   | 5     |
|                | B2C                                                                                                                                                                                                   | 2     |

> | Country        | Not in Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom, United States  | -7    |

Reviewer 2: Would we consider any of the following in our target? (These are just suggestions, so feel free to ignore, just seems like we might be being a bit _too_ restrictive with this list!)

- Australia
- New Zealand
- Mexico (latam tech hub)
- Singapore (far east tech hub)
- South Korea
- Any other EU countries like Estonia, Poland
- UAE (middle east tech hub)
- Israel (middle east tech hub)

Reviewer 2: (The reason I want to get specific with this btw is because it affects where we then target our content and ads - if we think Israel will result in low quality signups for example, we'll make sure we're not running ads there)

Author: I'd say yes to all of the above except for UAE and Mexico as (from prior experience) their propensity to pay for software is low.  I'll make the update in the docs to reflect that change though.
